NPRM factsheet (#665)
usdoj-crt/beta-ada: _pages/notices/_posts/2023-07-20-web-nprm.md

## Reasons for this Proposed Rule

- State and local governments provide many of their services, programs, and activities through websites and mobile applications (apps). When these websites and mobile apps are not accessible, they can create barriers for people with disabilities.
- This can also make it more difficult or impossible for people with disabilities to readily access important government services like absentee ballots or tax information that are quickly and easily available to other voters and taxpayers online.
- Sometimes, inaccessible websites and mobile apps can keep people with disabilities from joining civic or other community events like town meetings or programs at their child’s school, or make it harder for them to join.
- This proposed rule is intended to help better ensure access for people with disabilities and provide state and local governments with more clarity on how they can make sure they are complying with the ADA.
- You can find more information about why the Department of Justice is proposing this rule in the NPRM [add link to Federal Register] in the section called “Need for Department Action.”

## Highlights of the Proposals in the NPRM

> Some of the specific proposed requirements found in the NPRM are highlighted below. Review the full NPRM [add link to Federal Register] to get an understanding of the entire proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the specific proposed requirements found in the NPRM are highlighted below. Review the full NPRM TODO to get an understanding of the entire proposal.
```

</tr>
<tr>
<th scope="row">50,000 or more persons</th>
<td>Two years after publication of the final rule</td>
</tr>
</table>

- After this time, state and local governments would have to continue to make their web content and mobile apps comply with the technical standard.

{% details What are special district governments? %}
The NPRM proposes a specific definition of a special district government. Special district governments include, for example, a mosquito abatement district, utility district, transit authority, water and sewer board, zoning district, or other similar state or local government entity that has a specific function.
{% enddetails %}

{% details What compliance date would apply to school districts? %}
A school district is not a special district government. If it is a city school district, it would use the population of the city to know when to comply. If it is a county school district, it would use the population of the county. If it is an independent school district, it would use the population estimate in the most recent [Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/saipe.html).
{% enddetails %}

## We Want Your Feedback

> - This fact sheet gives a high-level summary of the NPRM. For more details about our proposal, you should read the NPRM at [link to ADA version].  The NPRM is also published at [https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection/2023-15823/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state](https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection/2023-15823/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This fact sheet gives a high-level summary of the NPRM. For more details about our proposal, you should read the NPRM at TODO.  The NPRM is also published at [https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection/2023-15823/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state](https://www.federalregister.gov/public-inspection/2023-15823/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state).
```
